# Zeidel_Relax
In numerical linear algebra, the Gauss-Seidel method, also known as the Liebmann method or the method of successive displacement, is an iterative method used to solve a linear system of equations. It is named after the German mathematicians Carl Friedrich Gauss and Philipp Ludwig von Seidel and is similar to the Jacobi method. Though it can be applied to any matrix with non-zero elements on the diagonals, convergence is only guaranteed if the matrix is either diagonally dominant or symmetric and positive definite. It was only mentioned in a private letter from Gauss to his student Gerling in 1823. A publication was not delivered before 1874 by Seidel.
In numerical mathematics, relaxation methods are iterative methods for solving systems of equations, including nonlinear systems.

Relaxation methods were developed for solving large sparse linear systems, which arose as finite-difference discretizations of differential equations. They are also used for the solution of linear equations for linear least-squares problems[4] and also for systems of linear inequalities, such as those arising in linear programming.  They have also been developed for solving nonlinear systems of equations.

Relaxation methods are important especially in the solution of linear systems used to model elliptic partial differential equations, such as Laplace's equation and its generalization, Poisson's equation. These equations describe boundary-value problems, in which the solution-function's values are specified on boundary of a domain; the problem is to compute a solution also on its interior. Relaxation methods are used to solve the linear equations resulting from a discretization of the differential equation, for example by finite differences.

Iterative relaxation of solutions is commonly dubbed smoothing because with certain equations, such as Laplace's equation, it resembles repeated application of a local smoothing filter to the solution vector. These are not to be confused with relaxation methods in mathematical optimization, which approximate a difficult problem by a simpler problem whose "relaxed" solution provides information about the solution of the original problem.
